---
layout: default
title: "2014: Simon Peyton Jones"
---
Simon Peyton Jones has served the programming languages community for
many years and in many capacities.  In addition to serving on the
SIGPLAN Executive Committee and on numerous program committees for the
major SIGPLAN conferences, he has served as both program and general
chair for ICFP and program chair for POPL, and as editor-in-chief of
the Journal of Functional Programming, published by Cambridge
University Press.  His development and maintenance of GHC, the Glasgow
Haskell Compiler, as well as his stewardship of the Haskell 98
standardization effort, have made Haskell into both an active research
testbed and an industrial-strength language for commercial use, as
recognized by the 2011 SIGPLAN Software Award.  Last but not least, he
has played a major leadership role in the recent reform of computing
education in the UK.  He co-founded and serves as chair of Computing
at School, the group that was primarily responsible for the recent
reform of the national curriculum; he was a member of the Royal
Society working group that wrote the influential report "Shut down or
restart: the way forward for computing in schools"; and he chaired the
group that drafted the new national programme of study for Computing.
Simon's investments in UK education are inspiring, and will pay
dividends for generations to come.
